Practical Tools-Prototypes.
A Prototype is typically a preliminary model of something,
and in this case, a preliminary model of your user interface.
Start by gathering the User Stories, Use Cases,
Workflow Diagrams, and Swim Lanes.
You might call all of this the requirements collateral.
I recommend creating your Prototypes by making paper or
white board sketches of your screens.
At this point in the process, low-tech is the best.
It's fast and efficient, that is, you can throw it away at almost no cost.
Perform a few quick iterations with the product owner,
get feedback, refine your Prototypes,
validate it against the requirements collateral,
and repeat.
Also, here's a tip.
Consider reviewing the draft Prototypes with the designers and developers.
This will help bring up any obvious implementation
issues that might arise downstream.
Practical Tools-Prototypes, Part 2.
"This would be a lot easier to understand if you could just draw me a picture.
" Boy, I've heard that many times.
Users love pictures,
and will help you and your customer better understand
the User Stories and Workflows.
For me, I use the term "Prototype" to represent a rough drawing.
Simple and quick, just use a white board or paper as your starting point.
Those coming from a programming background will wanna jump
in and begin using their favorite IDE, Interactive Development Environment.
Don't.
Rapid customer feedback is what we're looking for.
At this point, you are looking for a rough meeting of the minds,
nothing too specific now.
With your customer, validate your screen Prototypes against your User Stories,
Cases, and Workflows.
Your Prototype may look something like this.
Here's a simple grid with columns.
Here's a simple screen layout.
Maybe take pictures of your sketches and use those when you create Wireframes,
which is in the next step.
Practical Tools-Wireframes.
Consider a Wireframe next.
For me,
I used the term Wireframe to represent using a
drawing tool that mimics a real screen.
The definition of a Wireframe is a schematic or other
low-fidelity rendering of a computer interface,
intended to primarily demonstrate functionality,
features, content, and user flow.
Okay, the rules of thumb are, again, simple and quick-rapid customer feedback,
validate against User Stories, Cases, and Workflows.
There are many Wireframe tools on the market, some free, and some not so free.
I did this one in Visio.
You can see it has some very simple objects,
like text boxes and grids, to make it easy to mock up.
The point of a Wireframe is to further refine and add detail
without spending or wasting development time.
It's too early for that.
For those that think you can use an IDE,
just as Visual Studio, for example, to build a Wireframe,
I would say, caution.
You might find yourself wanting to write code rather
than focus on the user's requirements.
Practical Tools-Mockups.
Consider a screen Mockup next.
A Mockup is usually a full-sized scale model used for demonstration.
Be sure your Prototypes and/or Wireframes are solid and have received sufficient
customer feedback and validation before starting this step.
Now, you are using the IDE you will ultimately develop your application with.
Using your IDE is more costly as a Prototype tool if you use
it too early in the requirements process,
and that's why I cautioned wait and use it as this point.
This graphic depicts a screen that was built in visualstudio.
net.
Tip: If you come from a strong software engineering background,
please resist jumping from User Stories to coding in your IDE.
You will waste time and money. Trust me, I have seen it happen many times.